<div align="center">
<h1>FreeTumor: Synthesize and Segment Tumors at Scale</h1>

</div>

This work presents **FreeTumor**, a simple baseline for scaling up tumor segmentation datasets via large-scale tumor synthesis. FreeTumor is versatile and applicable to a variety of tumors/lesions, currently supporting liver tumors, pancreas tumors, kidney tumors, and COVID-19. The paper, models, and more details will be available when they are available.


## Datasets

The labels of training datasets can be found at [Hugging face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/Luffy503/FreeTumor), which contain organ labels for tumor synthesis. For abdomen organs, most of them are obtained from original sources while some of them are generated by a CT foundation model [VoCo](https://github.com/Luffy03/Large-Scale-Medical). The lung labels are generated by [lungmask](https://github.com/JoHof/lungmask). You can download the images of datasets from their original sources or our previous repo [Large-Scale-Medical](https://github.com/Luffy03/Large-Scale-Medical). Specifically, the organ labels are defined as:
```
# abdomen
0: background
1: liver
2: liver tumors
3: pancreas
4: pancreas tumors
5: kidney
6: kidney tumors

# chest
0: background
1: lung
```

The path of datasets should be organized as:
```
├── /data/FreeTumor
    ├── Dataset003_Liver
    ├── Dataset007_Pancreas
    ├── Dataset220_KiTS2023
    ├── Covid19_20
    ├── BTCV
    ├── Flare22
    ├── Flare23
    ├── Amos2022
    ├── WORD
    ├── PANORAMA
    ├── AbdomenCT-1K
    ├── CHAOS
    ├── Dataset082_TCIA_Pancreas-CT
    ├── Dataset009_Spleen
    ├── Dataset010_Colon
    ├── Dataset224_AbdomenAtlas1.0
    ├── MELA
    ├── 3Dircadb1_convert
    ├── TCIAcovid19
    ├── stoic21
    └── LIDC
```

## Implementations

First, you need to download a baseline segmentation model as the discriminator for synthesis training (or you can train a new one). The baseline segmentation model is placed in '/baseline/'
```
├── baseline
    └── model_baseline_segmentor.pt
```

The synthesis training is conducted on 8*H800 GPUs while the segmentation training can be done with one 3090 GPU. Simple commands for training:
```
# Synthesis training
sh Syn_train.sh

# Segmentation training
sh Free_train.sh
```

Notably, currently we provide codes to train a generalist model, which can synthesize liver tumors, pancreas tumors, and kidney tumors (output by different channels). If you want to train specialist models for specific types of tumors (e.g., one model for liver tumors and another model for pancreas tumors), you need to modify the organ labels manually and check the codes [here]. 

For synthesis training, you can modify number of GPUs in 'Syn_train.sh' script. You can modify the number of training epochs, batch size, or other parameters in 'Syn_train.py'.

After synthesis training, we use the generative model for tumor synthesis during segmentation training. For the parameters of segmentation training:

- data: 'lits', 'panc', 'kits'. Training different segmentation models for different types. 
- task: 'onlylabeled' or 'freesyn'. 'onlylabeled' means the baseline, training with only real tumors.
- use_ssl_pretrained: whether use pre-trained models. Optional, just want to advertise our work [VoCo](https://github.com/Luffy03/Large-Scale-Medical).
- baseline_seg_dir: the path to the baseline segmentation model, serving for tumor quality control in segmentation training.
- TGAN_checkpoint: the path to the generative model.

We initially provide a baseline segmentation model and a generative model (trained on 2K data) for validation, you can download them [here].


## Acknowledgement

 **NOTE THAT** we are not the authors of these datasets. Although all these datasets are publicly available for academic research, you need to cite the original works as shown in our paper. 
 
This work is highly inspired by series of [pioneering works](https://github.com/MrGiovanni/SyntheticTumors) led by Prof. Zhou. **We highly appreciate their great efforts.**

## Citation

Our preliminary version is on [arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01264), while the results are different from this repo. If you find our codes or datasets useful, please consider to leave a star and cite our paper as follows, we would be highly grateful (^o^)/.

```bibtex
@article{wu2024freetumor,
  title={FreeTumor: Advance Tumor Segmentation via Large-Scale Tumor Synthesis},
  author={Wu, Linshan and Zhuang, Jiaxin and Ni, Xuefeng and Chen, Hao},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01264},
  year={2024}
}
@article{wu2024large,
  title={Large-Scale 3D Medical Image Pre-training with Geometric Context Priors},
  author={Wu, Linshan and Zhuang, Jiaxin and Chen, Hao},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09890},
  year={2024}
}
```
